---
layout: post
title: ST558 First Blog
---

My viewpoint on statistics and data science is heavily influenced by how my interest in mathematics and statistics have developed throughout my academic career. The question “what can I actually use this for” is one I’ve been asking since my high school math classes, and my undergraduate degree program in mathematics ended up pulling me towards a substantial number of economics- and statistics-adjacent courses that didn’t quite provide a satisfactory answer. As such, despite being surrounded by examples of statistics existing in the real world, I view it as a very theoretical subject, and statisticians as being in an occupation very similar to mathematicians, even though they do interact primarily with existing data.

Data scientists, on the other hand, seem to exist to bridge the gap between the theoretical and the practical, which may have become nontrivial recently. Since I see the duties of statisticians being to collect, analyze, and draw conclusions from raw data, it naturally follows that data scientists would take the analysis and conclusions and put them in a context where they could be inputted to a machine learning algorithm and used to further whatever objectives their organization had. To do this, they would need at least a solid understanding of the mathematics behind the statistician’s work, which would have to come with knowledge of programming and machine learning. However, other than technical knowledge, I don’t think their responsibilities really entail anything different than what a statistician *could* do. The duties of data scientists compared to statisticians seem to be largely dependent on the rapidly developing technology of the last few decades, which is why it’s so difficult to pin down the specifics of what it is they do. It seems clear, however, that they've become a necessary step in helping how statistics are gathered and communicated to stay connected to said developments.

